# Getting hands on with PyTorch

I have continued to learn the nuts and bolts of PyTorch. Some of the topics that I have learned include the following: 

- Tensor operations 
- Built in functions to perform the tensor operations 
- How to convert different forms of input into tensors ( text/ images/ tabular data ) 

Bought a book on core PyTorch by Manning. It covered many of the questions that I had in my mind. Overall the framework for developing any deep learning model is described below: 

Step 1 - Organize your input data into Train and Test 

Step 2 - Create a PyTorch Datasets object

Step 3 - Create a PyTorch DataLoader Object (for making the data iterable) based on PyTorch Datasets

Step 4 - Convert to Tensor format 
Decide on the data transformations needed ( based on deep learning model you are planning to use and also the quality of data that you have). Leverage the PyTorch Transforms for doing the same in case of images. For tabular data - need to transform text data into categorical data. For text data - need to remove repeated words and spaces. For now am going to focus just on images.

Step 5 - Choose data augmentation needed ( there are many available specific to the data you are using) 

Step 6 - Choose a deep learning model ( or a set of models that could be used or built a new one from scratch) 
Modify the last layer based on the task in hand ( classification - choose number of choices based on the same). The design of each layer changes based on the task you are performing.  

Step 7 - Choose the metric to use for evaluation 

Step 8 - Choose the optimizer algorithm to use 

Step 9 - Choose the batch size and number of epochs

Step 10 - Run the training 

Step 11 - Repeat steps 4 to 10 based on metrics obtained. Check the performance of your model before making any changes. 
